Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to introduce event listeners.
So previously we've looked at event handlers and we know that every element can only have one event
handler and that forces us if we want mouseover mouse out in order to do it in line with the attributes.
And if we're trying to separate our javascript from our age to a male that doesn't go over well so I'm
going to show you another way to do this and this is going to be with event listeners.
So this is newer So some of the older browsers I think it's below ideate they're not going to be able
to handle out of that listener.
So just be mindful of the fact that this isn't going to work across all browsers but it's actually going
to give us the ability to add multiple event listeners multiple events on the same element.
So let's open up.
And so this is what we had in our previous code.
And what I wanted to do is basically fix this up so that we can have that source there and we can do
the most over's despite accessing the ID.
So let's get rid of the stuff we had here.
And I'm also going to simply I'm going to grab the source of this image or actually we are loading the
source of the image over here so we're doing that dynamically when the page loads.
So keep that in place so that will keep it nice and neat and that will give us full control over whatever
image we're actually loading into the page.
And this is from the previous lesson where we're looking at handling mouse events.
So that was earlier where we're looking at just different ways of handling mouse events.
We do a mouseover and most and other really cool thing about it is we action we can add event listeners
and we can also remove that listeners.
So that becomes a really useful when we're trying to update and do even more with our elements.
So now let's build out this functionality that we have down here where we're swamping the image so get
rid of that and I'll bring that rate down to the bottom because we're not going to need that we're just
going to need it simply as a guide within our web project.
So let me make a few more adjustments because we're going to need a global variable that's going to
access this particular element because we're going to have to access that number of times.
So this will be my image.
So just give it a variable of I.
And that way we know that we can load the source on load and we can get the value of the image loader
so set up all of her variables at the top.
So just doing some reorganizing and this way we can clean up some of this code where we don't have to
keep continuously repeat and we'll keep the message one as well.
And I wanted to get rid of these ones that we have here.
So let's see if things are still working or what's broken.
So we know that when we click it we're still getting that clicked.
So that's still working and that's working within that new set up.
So now let's add in some additional event listeners.
So I want to actually update this one first because this is the first one that we're looking at.
So we're going to do I guess are grabbing that same object and we're doing ad event listeners so we're
able to register event to a Target basically.
So add to that listener and we need to specify what type of event that we're listening for.
So it's going to be a click that we're listening for.
And once it gets clicked then we're going to do a function in here and we can pick up that event information
within the parameters here which we don't actually need to but just for the sake of it we're going to
pick that information up there.
So now that we've clicked it we can console log.
So we'll console log the event object and we'll also do message.
Clicked now and now I can get rid of this part here.
So let's go back out and refreshed.
And now you can see when I click it we've got that mouse event firing off.
And if you don't want to pass it as a parameter by default it will pass in as event.
So this will do the same thing if I go out here and if I refresh it I can still click and I can still
get that most event information.
So let's add in some more mouse events and this time.
Let's do so we've got that click or let's add in a mouse event.
So I want to add in the mouse over.
So let's do the message.
And over so simply Now whenever we're over it we should see the mouse over there.
So now when we hover over it we can see that we've got that mouse again being triggered off.
Next we can do on mouse out or mouse move.
So we've got a number of options.
Let's do most.
So before we were using mouse over and mouse.
So we're going to do the same one so we've got mouse.
And actually there should be mouse over and this one is out so we can see that.
Now it should fire off.
So let's just make sure that everything is working so we know that we're over.
And now we know that we're out.
So we're all ready to actually swap our image.
So the next thing that we need to do is simply add in what we want to do and what we want to swap out.
And earlier we saw that we've already hooked up that.
So this is the active event.
So what we can do is when we're mouse over it we can do this.
Source.
And now all we need to do is specify the value that we want for the source.
And I believe that we were using the placeholder dot com values so we want to do the second image whenever
we hover over it.
So now let's try this out.
So whenever we're over we're swapping out the image and now the only thing that's left is to create
a place holder.
So we're just going to hold the value in t
grabbed the old value the original value of this source before we overwrite it and place it within the.
And now what I want you to do is pause the video and take care of the mouse.
So make sure that it's going to work that whenever we're over it shows the red image.
And we when we go out it shows the original image.
So I want you to add that into the script.
So pause the video and add it into the script and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So welcome back and I hope you had an opportunity to try that out.
And the solution for this we can simply grab this because we've got this object and we know that that
old image was being stored in t.
So this is all we have to do.
We just need to update that value of that source to the previous value that we have stored.
So now when we ever we hover over it and we go off of it we can see we've got the mouse over and mouse.
And when we click it our Click event is still firing off.
So everything is working as before but we've actually had a nice separation from our script.
And if we actually were linking to a script file the H Tim L would be nice and clean and we don't have
any javascript now in between as attributes within our H-2 mail and the event listener gives us the
ability to handle multiple event events on the same element.
So go ahead and try to do it for yourself in multiple event listeners you cannot in as many as you want
on the same element and separate go back to some of the earlier code that we had written and go back
and separate out the h tim L from the Java Script writing it all within the script tags or within a
G-S file.